In the last video, we were able to sign up for the very first time and get back a JSON Web token.
Now, this right here is not exactly a JSON Web token, but it does kind of technically contain it.
The value that we're actually looking at is that session object that we just set.
So in other words, this session object right here that got turned into JSON and then base 64 encoded.
So to actually get the JSON Web token out of here, we've got to do just a little bit of work.
Let's go through it just one time just to make sure it's all crystal clear.
So I'm going to take that value right there.
I'm going to copy it.
I'm then going to go over to my browser.
And I'm going to go to a website called Base 64 decoded dot org.
This is a little tool that can take a base 64 string and then play or decode it into plain UTF eight.
So I'll paste in that whole string.
I'll hit decode.
And there is our JSON object right there.
So you'll see that we do have in fact that JWT property and inside that string that is the actual honest
to god JSON web token.
So let's play around with that string a little bit, too.
I'm going to take just the JSON Web token.
I'm going to copy it and I'll go to yet another website called JWT.
I Oh, this is a website just to help raise awareness of JSON Web tokens and how they work.
If you come to JWT, IO and then scroll down a little bit, there's a little tool that you can use to
take a look at JSON Web tokens and just make sure that they are actually properly encoded, see the
information inside them and all that stuff.
So I'm going to take the JSON Web token and put it in on the left hand side.
I'll then go to the right hand side and down here inside a verify signature.
We're going to put in the signing key that we wrote into our code just a moment ago.
So for me it was simply a PDF.
It's all put in right here, SDF.
As soon as I do so you'll see that says signature verified.
So that is the proof that this is a valid token.
If some malicious user came along and tried to change the information inside of here.
So let's say they change essentially anything inside of here.
So I'm going to go ahead and delete a character.
All of a sudden, it is no longer a valid token.
We tried it.
We tried to verify that this was a valid token using that signing signature of SDF and note it failed
to check which would be assigned to you and I as developers, that someone has messed around with this
thing and we should no longer trust it.
As soon as I put in the valid token, once again, the whole thing is valid.
You'll notice that on the right hand side we can see the payload inside of here very easily.
Just, you know, you can see this payload even if we have a invalid token or you don't need that signing
that signing string right there, we can delete that entirely.
And we could still see all the information inside this payload just fine.
So remember, with the JSON web token, anyone can see the information inside of it, and it is the
fact that we can verify that no one has messed around with this information that actually makes it significant.
We can see the ID of the user, we can see their email and then IAT right here is the issued at time.
That is when the JSON web token was actually created.
Okay.
So that all looks pretty good.
So now a quick diagram.
Just want to expand on that signing key just a little bit.
So we took the payload.
We took the signing key and we tossed them into our JSON web token library and that spat out our actual
JSON web token.
Any time that we are going to receive this JSON Web token inside of another service, when we need to
see whether or not it is a valid token to decide whether or not this user is actually logged in.
That means that those other services are going to need to get access to that signing key, because it's
only with that signing key that we can make sure that a token is actually valid.
Now the downside here, we're essentially talking about sharing this signing key with all these other
services.
If anyone ever got access to that signing key, they could easily manufacture their own tokens that
our application would think are valid.
So we essentially need to share the signing key with all of our other services, but we need to make
sure that no one else gets their hands on it.
So as you guess, writing out that signing key in plain text, as we are doing right here, is not appropriate
at all.
At no point in time unless we are in a development environment just messing around a little bit.
Do we want to write out that signing key in plain text?
So we need to figure out some way to extract that signing key, store it securely somehow within our
overall application.
And we need to make sure that we can easily share that exact signing key with everything inside of our
app.
So all the other different services that are going to eventually receive a JSON web token.
So this really comes down to a challenge with Docker and Kubernetes.
Let's take a pause right here.
When we come back, the next video, we're going to figure out how we can securely share information
throughout all of our different services.